Add blog post on GUI for consistency check (#109)
JabRef/blog.jabref.org: _posts/2025-02-18-JabRef5-15.md

---
title: JabRef's new GUI for Bibliography Consistency Check

> author: [Priyanshu Gupta](https://github.com/priyanshu16095)

Reviewer: You first need to add your name to the author's file; otherwise, it's not shown correctly
https://github.com/JabRef/blog.jabref.org/blob/main/_data/authors.yml

---

> Hi, I’m Priyanshu, an engineering student in computer science. In this blog post, I’m glad to introduce a new feature that adds a graphical user interface (GUI) for a bibliography consistency check in JabRef.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hi, I’m Priyanshu, an engineering student in computer science. In this blog post, I’m glad to introduce you to a new feature that I worked on - a graphical user interface (GUI) for checking bibliography consistency in JabRef.
```

> Hi, I’m Priyanshu, an engineering student in computer science. In this blog post, I’m glad to introduce you to a new feature that I worked on - a graphical user interface (GUI) for checking bibliography consistency in JabRef.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hi, I’m Priyanshu, an engineering student in Computer Science. In this blog post, I’m glad to introduce you to a new feature that I worked on - a graphical user interface (GUI) for checking bibliography consistency in JabRef.
```

## What's New?

With this new GUI, JabRef users can now:

- **Check Bibliography Consistency**: Easily check the consistency of BibTeX entries across an entire library.
- **View Results in a Structured Format**: The results are displayed in a clean, organized window with tables and symbols that indicate missing, optional, or required fields.

> - **Jump to Specific Entries**: Click on a specific entry in the result table to directly navigate to that entry in the JabRef editor.

Reviewer 2: "JabRef editor" is a vague term. Do you mean "JabRef" or the "entry editor"?

## How to Use

1. Open JabRef and go to the Quality menu.
2. Click on the Check Consistency option, which is located below Check Integrity.
3. JabRef will run the BibliographyConsistencyCheck on your entire library and show the results in a new window.
4. The result window will display entries grouped by their EntryType.
5. Each entry will be shown in a table with columns indicating whether required fields are present (x), optional fields are present (o), or if a field is missing (-).

> 6. If any entry has missing fields, click on it to go directly to the entry in the JabRef editor.

Reviewer 2: Same as above ^

## Results Window Explained

The result window is designed to present the consistency check results in an easily digestible format:

- **EntryType Headings**: Each EntryType (such as article, book, inproceedings, etc.) will be listed as a heading.
- **Tables for Each EntryType**: Under each heading, you’ll see a table showing the citation key and fields associated with the entry.
  - **Column 1**: Citation key of the entry.
  - **Other columns**: Represent the fields and their status (`x`, `o`, `?`, or `-`).
- **Navigation**: Clicking on a line in the table will take you directly to the corresponding entry in the editor, making it easy to address inconsistencies.

## Symbols in the Results

The following symbols will be used to indicate the presence or absence of fields:

- `x`: Required field is present.
- `o`: Optional field is present.
- `?`: Unknown field is present.
- `-`: Field is absent.

This simple system helps you quickly identify entries that need attention.

## Call for Feedback

> The new feature will make it much easier for users to ensure their BibTeX entries are properly formatted and consistent.
> 
> We encourage you to try it out and share your feedback! If you encounter any issues or have suggestions for improvement, please report them on our [issues page](https://github.com/JabRef/jabref/issues).  
> 
> Looking forward to your thoughts!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This new feature is expected make it much easier for users to ensure their BibTeX entries are properly formatted and consistent. We encourage you to try it out and let us know your thoughts.  

In case you encounter any issues or have any suggestions for improvement, please report them by [raising an issue](https://github.com/JabRef/jabref/issues).  

Looking forward to your feedback!
```
